This video is sponsored by the BenQ USB Screenbar Lamp. Setup is
straightfoward. Just secure the lamp to its counterbalance, plug the provided
USB cable into any available port, and secure the screenbar on top of your
monitor. I've personally found the screenbar most useful for gaming or video
editing at night, where I don't want to strain my eyes from my monitors' blue
light . --spongebob my eyes == Because I need to maintain color accuracy in OBS
and kdenlive for my videos, I could never really use software nightmode.
Therefore, the warmer colors of screenbar offers up a nice hardware solution .
I'll be posting links to the Amazon product page and BenQ's website in the
video description. 


Like many others, I've been quarantined at home for months due to recent global
events. During this time, Valve has decided to host seasonal games festivals,
featuring dozens of limited time demos. With a week to burn, I played through
as many of these demos as possible in order discuss the ones I've enjoyed
the most.  Given the limited scope of these trials, I can only generally talk
about the individual strengths and weaknesses of each game.


Game #1: Trepang2

Okay, I'm technically cheating, since this demo came out in December 2019.  But
it was featured in the summer festival, so it still counts. Trepang2 is the
result of translating gun fu action cinema into a video game. Bullets and
debree fly all over the screen and pumping lead into enemies contorts their
bodies, making them spew out blood and gibs.  In addition to your guns, you
have a stealth cloak, allowing you to takedown individual soldiers. Sneak up on
an enemy, use them as a hostage, and snap their neck when you're done. When the
combat akk comes together, it's a sight to behold, as you embark on a major
power fantasy.

The major strength of combat lies in the constant ebb and flow of its pacing.
The methodical nature of stealth and bullet time give you small windows to plan
out ambushes, breaking up the otherwise relentless pace of firefights.  Once
you've finished the introductory level, I'd strongly recommend testing your
skills in the horde mode, as the combat loop becomes distilled to one
gloriously hectic arena. 

Okay, now let's address the elephant in the room. Yes, I'm aware that F.E.A.R
exists and tried gun fu combat 15 years earlier. However, Point Man's limited
mobility options prevented you from performing the acrobatic stunts critical to
this genre. But even ignoring that, F.E.A.R had some severe balance issues that
Trepang2 improves on. For starters, you can't carry around 10 instant
activation medkits that can carry you through any fight. Secondly, Trepang2's
slo-mo recharges on kills, not purely over time. So this forces you to be more
aggressive to actively maintain your slo-mo, whereas you could sit in a corner
in F.E.A.R until the power is ready. 

In the final release of Trepang2, I would like to see some more enemy variety
than just paramilitary soldiers. Maybe some melee pressure units like hounds or
super heavy mechs to act as constant threats. Because as it is, I feel that
it's a bit too easy to overwhelm the AI given your suite of tools. 

Game #2: Ultrakill

Devil May Quake. What would happen if you took the combo frenzy nature of a
spectacle fighter and combined it with Quake's frenetic FPS combat? Well, you'd
get something like Ultrakill.

The goal here is not to just kill, but to do it as stylishly as possible to
rack up a high score. 

Your character has incredible mobility, being able to triple dash, slide around
quickly, and perform triple wall jumps. Oh, and you can also butt stomp foes
and parry projectiles with your fist.

The weapons similarly promote skillful play, as they all feature a variety of
interesting firing modes. The pistol has a charged shot that pierces through
enemies, as well as the marksman shot that reflects a bullet to an enemy crit
spot if you shoot a flipped coin. The shotgun has a grenade launcher and a
charged blast that can explode if overpumped. Finally, you've got a nailgun
with tracking darts.

Thus, when given all of these tools, you need to get creative and constantly
mix up your playstyle in order to get higher ranks. For example, you
can dash to a group of melee fodder, butt stomp them into the air, and finish
them off with a shotgun grenade to get an instant SSSadistic rank. 

The only weapon I've found little use for is the pistol marksman mod. The
damage bonus from the crit just isn't high enough to compensate for the easily
whiffable coin toss. Reload cancelling the shotgun is just a much more reliable
source of DPS.

I'd also like to see a more descriptive tutorial in the final game, so I could
immediately get a better understanding of the mechanical interactions between
movement and weapons, kinda similar to what Doom Eternal does. 

Ultimately, Ultrakill is a blast to play, thanks to its fast skill-based combat
and emphasis on stylish kills.

Game #3: Fae Tactics

Growing up, I played a lot of Final Fantasy Tactics advanced on the GBA.
Playing the demo for Fae Tactics brings back those childhood memories with its
party battles and turn-based grid combat. 

Outside of the nostalgia, Fae Tactics has some interesting twists to the
classic strategy RPG. Units have unique buffs that they can apply to nearby
allies, from cloaking to aggro draw. Placing your aquatic unit in water will
double his damage and cause him to heal over time. Doing a ranged attack on a
distant enemy while you have a melee unit next to them will activate a combo,
making your melee ally attack even if it's not their turn. 

When all combined together, Fae Tactics gives players plenty of interesting
tools to plan out their battles even though it doesn't have spell lists that
span pages. Furthermore, each fight has an unique gimmick that changes the way
you plan, from giant enemy cannons to fire buff totems. 

I think my biggest issue with the game currently is the levelling system. I
would've like to see more than 3 basic stat upgrades for each character.
Perhaps job specialization like in Final Fantasy Tactics, although that might
be in the full game. 

Game #4: Ghostrunner

Ghostrunner is a first person platformer with parkour and melee combat.  The
name of the game here is speedrunning, as you're always looking to optimize the
time of your runs. From learning new movement techs like crouch jumping to
sequence breaking platforming sections, you're encouraged to experiment with
your tools in order to play faster and smarter. The flexibility of this
mobility system is easily the game's greatest strength, as its dash and tether
mechanics are forgiving enough to let players correct mistakes , while still
encouraging them to pursue mechanical mastery .  

Despite this, Ghostrunner has some odd design decisions that hamper the
speedrunning experience, with the most annoying being the unskippable
cutscenes. Now, a 20 second intro cinematic doesn't sound terrible, but if
you're attempting to speedrun the level and perfect your time, those twenty
seconds add up considerably on replays.  Similarly, you have to sit
through an ending cutscene to see what your run's overall time is. If these
cinematics are a way to mask loading times, then I'd rather just have a longer
upfront load screen so I don't have to deal with these cutscenes every time I
want to practice.

Regarding combat, I'd like to see some visual changes to enhance player
feedback.  An hitmarker of some kind would be the biggest improvement, as it'd
let me quickly determine if I've overshot an enemy with my slash dash or killed
them. Because as it is, it can be easy to tune out their death cries with the
background synth music and the speed-oriented nature of the game. 


Game #5: Shady Knight

Shady Knight is a first person slasher with platforming, similar to 2006's Dark
Messiah of Might and Magic. For those of you not familiar with that game,
Shady Knight is a melee sandbox where you're given a handful of combat tools
and told to go ham on enemies.  Your sword can block incoming blows with a
timed parry, be charged to deal increased damage, or be thrown to target ranged
foes. Kicking will disrupt enemies and create distance between the two of you,
and sliding will increase your speed and allow you to aim your kick more
precisely.  Alongside that, the environment is filled with hazards, from spiked
walls to falling crates.  Given all of these options, you can dispatch foes in
practically any way you see fit. 

From kicking enemies into spiked traps to headshotting them with a sword throw,
the game always feels great to play due to its hitstop, slowmotion kills, and
exagerrated animations. That said, the headbobbing can be a little extreme,
especially during sliding, so I would like to see an option to tone it down. 

The platforming...exists. Given the lofi artstyle and lack of visible player
feet, it can be hard to determine object distances and where to orient
yourself. In general, it feels a bit antithetical to the freeflow combat, as
you're usually funneled down a singular route. While alternate paths would
help, the platforming would still be underwhelming when compared to the combat. 

The biggest concern I have right now with Shady Knight is the amount of variety
it'll have. Playing on similar looking towers over and over again becomes
repetitive after a while. Some more environmental variety would go a long way
into keeping the experience fresh on repeated playthroughs.

Game #6: Golden Light ???

And then we have Golden Light, which I can best describe as slavjank mindfuck.
I'm deeply torn between hating this game and loving it, and replaying the demo
has only left me more polarized. In general, the horror is excellent.  Mimics
move just outside of your field of view only to pounce when you've let your
guard down, doors will open and close at random, and heavy monster breaths
pollute the hallways. As a result, exploration is always tense, due to this
constant sense of dread.

Combat is a struggle due to the aggressive enemy AI and the tight corridors
that restrict your mobility. Your melee weapons take multiple hits to kill a
single foe and break easily, rendering them useless. Therefore, it's
mostly a last resort option.

When all taken in, Golden Light is an almost cathartic
experience.  

However, its technical issues are quite severe. Loading times are extreme, with
floors taking up to half a minute to load on an SSD. Given the relatively small
level sizes and low resolution textures, I'm not sure what could be causing
such a lengthy delay. Secondly, camera control is awful. Unlike most other
first person games, the camera turn rate is capped. While this isn't a problem
in itself, when combined with the heavy head bobbing and object motion, the
game becomes nauseating to play. 

But if those issues are ironed out, I think Golden Light will be a fascinating
little gem. 

Honorable Mention: HROT

Before I close off this video, I want to cover one final game that has a lot of
potential while having some fairly significant problems. HROT is a retro-styled
FPS set in 1980s Soviet Russia. Regarding the good, it has incredible
atmosphere thanks to the desaturated visuals, moody ambient music, and its
bleak industrial setting. The enemy design is also fantastic, with some truly
nightmarish creations like a taxidermied horse wearing a gas mask, or a flying
zombified Lenin head.  

And now we get to the bad. The ammo economy is broken. For the first part of
the level, you barely have enough ammo to kill enemies with the kalach SMG and
pistol. Even when finding secret stashes, I had resort to using melee, which
often got me killed due to very hard's damage scaling. However, once you get
the brokovnice shotgun, you'll never need to worry about ammo again, due to its
abundant ammo drops. So if HROT wants to focus on ammo scarcity, then it needs
to have far less plentiful shotgun ammo.  RNG also seems to be a major problem,
as I'll have mobs spawn in at random after I've cleared an arena, with there
being no clear triggers for them. Additionally, if one of the shotgunner
enemies drops his weapon upon death, then entire run becomes significantly
easier. 


Finally, the weapon sounds are bad, with the shotgun and smg being particularly
terrible. They are barely audible and sound completely flat, lacking any sort
of punch or kick. I'm not an audio engineer, but I went into the game files and
edited them in audacity, amplifying the sound as well as adding in some bass,
treble, crunch distortion, and reverb to make guns sound a bit beefier. The
biggest limitation to this is HROT's strict file size restrictions, as if the
modified sound isn't EXACTLY the same byte size as the original, then game will
crash on launch. Therefore, I can't layer audio or use high quality assets. But
the point is, if I can do this in a few hours with public domain audio clips
and a free sound editor, the developer can and should do so too. It's not that
hard.



Conclusion:

Overall, I'm impressed by what I saw from the Steam games festival. I'm glad
Valve's taken the time to spotlight these indie titles, as they would've gotten
lost in the sea of new releases otherwise. I'm hoping this seasonal festival
event continues, but in the future, I'd like to get more than a week to try out
the demos. Even increasing it to 10 days or two weeks would give me a lot more
time to digest and not feel quite as pressure to rush through them. 

Thank you very much for watching. This style of video was a little bit
different, but I enjoyed covering a bunch of smaller titles due to the change
of pace from one longer critique. Yes, the Borderlands 3 video is next. No, I
will not cover the new DLC, as it physically pains me to play the game now.
Following that, the Doom Eternal video. Past those, I don't know what'll be
coming up. Probably a combination of working through orphaned projects and
doing video restrospectives alongside some more linux tutorials. I'll have to
take another look at my footage archives to be sure.

If you'd like to stay up to date on channel news, you can follow me on Twitter
@SquidTheSid1 or join the Squidcord discord server. Finally, contributions to
my Patreon page over at patreon.com/squidthesid are always welcome, if you can
financially afford to do so.

As always, stay frosty. 


